ODDMU-RELEASES(7)

# NAME

oddmu-releases - what's new in this releases?

# DESCRIPTION

This page lists user-visible features and template changes to consider.

## 1.7 (2024)

Allow upload of multiple files. This requires an update to the upload.html
template: Add the _multiple_ attribute to the file input element and change the
label from "file" to "files".

Fix orientation of uploaded images. JPG and HEIC images have EXIF data telling a
viewer how to orient the image. Oddmu now uses this information to rotate the
image correctly before stripping it.

The version command now displays much less information unless given the -full
argument.

## 1.6 (2024)

Add _archive_ action to serve a zip file.

## 1.5 (2024)

Filtering separate sites in subdirectories via the ODDMU_FILTER environment
variable in order to exclude them from the _search_ action.

Add _version_ subcommand.

Add filesystem watchers to automatically reindex changed pages and reload
changed templates.

When rendering a page, use templates in the same directory, if available.

Delete uploaded files by uploading a file with zero bytes.

## 1.4 (2024)

If stdin is a Unix-domain socket, use that to serve the site. Otherwise, allow
specifying a listen address via the ODDMU_ADDRESS environment variable.

## 1.3 (2024)

Add support for resizing HEIC images (and saving them as JPG files).

## 1.2 (2023)

Add _list_ subcommand.

## 1.1 (2023)

Rewrote most of the README into man pages.

Add fediverse account rendering if ODDMU_WEBFINGER is set.

Add notifications when saving files: adding links to _index_, _changes_ and
_hashtag_ pages.

Add _replace_ subcommand. Add _missing_ subcommand. Add _notify_ command. Add
_static_ command.

Add _diff_ action.

Add feed generation based on the local links from a page.

Add caching support by considering the If-Modified-Since header in requests and
providing a Last-Modified header in responses.

Handle HEAD requests.

Remove HTML sanitization.

Remove MathJax support from the wiki parser. The templates never included the
necessary MathJax JavaScript anyway so the special handling of $ was just an
annoyance.

Drop trigram index and just search all the files. This takes much less RAM and
doesn't take too much time even with a few thousand pages.

Add "blog:true" and "blog:false" predicates to search.

Limit search to the current directory tree.

Do not overwrite fresh backups: there must be a 1h break before the backup is
overwritten.

## 1.0 (2023)

Paginate search results and no longer sort search results by score.

## 0.9 (2023)

Add image resizing.

Add wiki links in double square brackets to the parser.

## 0.8 (2023)

Rename files to backups before saving.

Rename the _saveUpload_ action to _drop_.

Add the _search_ subcommand.

## 0.7 (2023)

Add _upload_ and _saveUpload_ action so that one can upload files.

Add _html_ subcommand.

## 0.6 (2003)

Add _add_ and _append_ action so that one can add to an existing page. This is
important for me as editing pages on the phone can be cumbersome but leaving
comments on my own site has always been easy to do.

Serve all existing files, not just text files.

Save an empty page to delete it.

Changed default permissions from 600 to 644 for files and from 700 to 755 for
directories.

Make language detection configurable using an environment variable.

## 0.5 (2023)

Add hyphenation to templates using Peter M. Stahl's Lingua library.

## 0.4 (2023)

Create subdirectories as necessary.

## 0.3 (2023)

Add _search_ action using Damian Gryski's trigram indexing, with scoring,
highlighting and snippet extraction.

## 0.2 (2023)

Switch to Krzysztof Kowalczyk's Go Markdown fork of Blackfriday to render
Markdown. Use Dee's Bluemonday to sanitize HTML.

Switch to GNU Affero GPL 3 license.

Serve text files (.txt).

Support serving on any port via the environment variable ODDMU_PORT.

## 0.1 (2015)

A web server that allows editing files in Wiki Creole Matt Self's Cajun library.
Supported actions are _edit_, _save_, and _view_.

# SEE ALSO

_oddmu_(1)

# AUTHORS

Maintained by Alex Schroeder <alex@gnu.org>.
